[Doc] Verification of induced stresses along a fault in a pressurized reservoir (#1962)
GEOSX/GEOSX: src/docs/sphinx/advancedExamples/validationStudies/faultVerification/Example.rst

**Input file**

The xml input files for the test case with impermeable fault are located at:

.. code-block:: console

  inputFiles/poromechanics/faultPoroelastic_base.xml
  inputFiles/poromechanics/impermeableFault_benchmark.xml

The xml input files for the test case with permeable fault are located at:

.. code-block:: console

  inputFiles/poromechanics/faultPoroelastic_base.xml
  inputFiles/poromechanics/permeableFault_benchmark.xml

A mesh file and a python script for post-processing the simulation results are also provided:

.. code-block:: console

  inputFiles/poromechanics/faultMesh.msh

.. code-block:: console

  src/docs/sphinx/advancedExamples/validationStudies/faultVerification/faultVerificationFigure.py

------------------------------------------------------------------
Description of the case
------------------------------------------------------------------

> We simulate induced stresses along a normal fault in a pressurized reservoir, as shown below. The reservoir is offset and divided into two parts by an inclined fault. This mega fault crosses the entire reservoir and extends into both overburden and underburden. The whole domain is assumed to be horizontal, infinite, homogeneous, isotropic, and elastic medium. To resemble the analytical example, the reservoir is simply assumed to be uniformly pressurized upon injection and the transient effect of fluid flow is excluded. A pressure buildup is applied to: (i) the whole reservoir in the case of a permeable fault; (ii) left compartment in the case of an impermeable fault. Both overburden and underburden are impermeable and no pressure changes are allowed. Due to poromechanical effect, pore pressure change in the reservoir causes the mechanical deformation of the entire domain and thus, leads to the stress perturbation on the fault plane, which could potentially trigger the unfavored sliding of the mega fault. Fault serves only as a flow boundary and the mechanical separation of the fault plane (either shear slippage or normal opening) is prohibited to mimic the analytical example. For verification purposes, a plane strain deformation is considered in the numerical model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We simulate induced stresses along a normal fault in a pressurized reservoir, as shown below. The reservoir is offset and divided into two parts by an inclined fault. This mega fault crosses the entire reservoir and extends into both overburden and underburden. The whole domain is assumed to be horizontal, infinite, homogeneous, isotropic, and elastic. To resemble the analytical example, the reservoir is simply assumed to be uniformly pressurized upon injection and the transient effect of fluid flow is excluded. A pressure buildup is applied to: (i) the whole reservoir in the case of a permeable fault; (ii) the left compartment in the case of an impermeable fault. Both overburden and underburden are impermeable and no pressure changes are allowed. Due to the poromechanical effect, pore pressure change in the reservoir causes the mechanical deformation of the entire domain and thus, leads to a stress perturbation on the fault plane, which could potentially trigger sliding of the fault.  Here, the fault serves only as a flow boundary and the mechanical separation of the fault plane (either shear slippage or normal opening) is prohibited to mimic the analytical example. For verification purposes, a plane strain deformation is considered in the numerical model. 
```

.. _problemSketchFaultVerification:
.. figure:: geometry.PNG
   :align: center
   :width: 500
   :figclass: align-center

   Sketch of the problem 

In this example, we set up and solve a poroelastic model to obtain the spatial solutions of displacement and stress field across the domain upon pressurization. Changes of total stresses along the fault plane are evaluated and compared with the corresponding literature work `(Wu et al., 2020)  <https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1029/2020JB020436>`__. 

For this example, we focus on the ``Mesh``,
the ``Constitutive``, and the ``FieldSpecifications`` tags.

------------------------------------------------------------------
Mesh
------------------------------------------------------------------

The following figure shows the mesh used in this problem.

.. _problemMeshFaultVerification:
.. figure:: mesh.PNG
   :align: center
   :width: 500
   :figclass: align-center

   Imported mesh

> Here, we load the mesh with ``PAMELAMesh`` (see :ref:`ImportingExternalMesh`).

Reviewer: Can we convert this mesh to VTK (using meshio)?  Would be good to start migrating our examples away from PAMELA.

Author: Sure, will switch to vtk mesh

The syntax to import external meshes is simple: in the XML file,

> the mesh file ``faultMesh.msh`` is included with its relative or absolute path to the location of the GEOSX XML file and a user-specified label (here ``FaultModel``) is given to the mesh object. This mesh contains quadrilaterals elements and local refinements to conform with the fault geometry and two reservoir compartments displaced by the fault. The size of the reservoir should be large enough to avoid boundary effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the mesh file ``faultMesh.msh`` is included with its relative or absolute path to the location of the GEOSX XML file and a user-specified label (here ``FaultModel``) is given to the mesh object. This mesh contains quadrilateral elements and local refinement to conform with the fault geometry and two reservoir compartments displaced by the fault. The size of the reservoir should be large enough to avoid boundary effects.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../inputFiles/poromechanics/impermeableFault_benchmark.xml
  :language: xml
  :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_SINGLEPHASEFVM -->
  :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_SINGLEPHASEFVM_END -->

- the coupling solver (``SinglePhasePoromechanics``) that will bind the two single-physics solvers above, which is named as ``PoromechanicsSolver`` (more information at :ref:`PoroelasticSolver`).

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../inputFiles/poromechanics/impermeableFault_benchmark.xml
  :language: xml
  :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_POROMECHANICSSOLVER -->
  :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_POROMECHANICSSOLVER_END -->

The two single-physics solvers are parameterized as explained
in their corresponding documents. 

In this example, let us focus on the coupling solver.
This solver (``PoromechanicsSolver``) uses a set of attributes that specifically describe the coupling process within a poromechanical framework.
For instance, we must point this solver to the designated fluid solver (here: ``SinglePhaseFlowSolver``) and solid solver (here: ``mechanicsSolver``).

> These solvers are forced to interact with all the constitutive models in the target regions. We specify the discretization method (``FE1``, defined in the ``NumericalMethods`` section), and the target regions (here, we only have one, ``Domain``).

Reviewer: Can delete this sentence as repetitive.  The discretization stuff is described below.

Author: Delete it

The solid and fluid materials are named as ``rock`` and ``water`` respectively, whose mechanical properties are specified in the ``Constitutive`` section. ``PorousElasticIsotropic`` model is used to describe the linear elastic isotropic response of ``rock`` when subjected to fluid injection. And the single-phase fluid model ``CompressibleSinglePhaseFluid`` is selected to simulate the flow of ``water``.

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../../inputFiles/poromechanics/faultPoroelastic_base.xml
    :language: xml
    :start-after: <!-- SPHINX_MATERIAL -->
    :end-before: <!-- SPHINX_MATERIAL_END -->

All constitutive parameters such as density, viscosity, and Young's modulus are specified in the International System of Units.

-----------------------------------
Initial and boundary conditions
-----------------------------------

The next step is to specify fields, including:

  - The initial value (the in-situ stresses and pore pressure have to be initialized)
  - The boundary conditions (pressure buildup within the reservoir and constraints of the outer boundaries have to be set)

> In this example, we need to specify isotropic horizontal stress (:math:`\sigma_h` = -60.0 MPa and :math:`\sigma_H` = -60.0 MPa), vertical stress (:math:`\sigma_v` = -70.0 MPa), and intial reservoir pressure (:math:`P_0` = 35.0 MPa). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we need to specify isotropic horizontal stress (:math:`\sigma_h` = -60.0 MPa and :math:`\sigma_H` = -60.0 MPa), vertical stress (:math:`\sigma_v` = -70.0 MPa), and initial reservoir pressure (:math:`P_0` = 35.0 MPa). 
```

+------------------+-----------------------------+------------------+--------------------+
| :math:`D_L`      | Domain Length               | [m]              | 4000.0             |
+------------------+-----------------------------+------------------+--------------------+
| :math:`D_W`      | Domain Width                | [m]              | 2000.0             |
+------------------+-----------------------------+------------------+--------------------+
| :math:`D_T`      | Domain Thickness            | [m]              | 1000.0             |
+------------------+-----------------------------+------------------+--------------------+
| :math:`Res_T`    | Reservoir Thickness         | [m]              | 300.0              |
+------------------+-----------------------------+------------------+--------------------+
| :math:`F_{off}`  | Fault Vertical Offset       | [m]              | 100.0              |
+------------------+-----------------------------+------------------+--------------------+

---------------------------------
Inspecting results
---------------------------------

We request VTK-format output files and use Paraview to visualize the results.

> The following figure shows the distribution of resulted shear stress (:math:`\sigma_{xy}`) in the computational domain for two different cases (a permeable vs. an impermeable fault). Numerical solutions for both cases are also compared with the corresponding analytical solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following figure shows the distribution of resulting shear stress (:math:`\sigma_{xy}`) in the computational domain for two different cases (a permeable vs. an impermeable fault). Numerical solutions for both cases are also compared with the corresponding analytical solutions.
```

.. _problemFaultVerificationFig1:
.. figure:: contour.PNG
   :align: center
   :width: 1000
   :figclass: align-center

   Simulation results of :math:`\sigma_{xy}`

> The figure below compares the results from GEOSX (marks) and the corresponding analytical solution (solid curves) for the change of total stresses (:math:`\sigma_{xx}`, :math:`\sigma_{yy}` and :math:`\sigma_{xy}`) along the fault plane. As shown, GEOSX reliably captures the mechanical deformation of the faulted reservoir and shows excellent agreement with the analytical solutions for two different scenarios. Discrepancies on the stress perturbations between the cases with permeable and impermeable fault are also noticeable, which suggests that fault permeability plays a crucial role in governing reservoir deformation for the problems with reservoir pressurization or depletion. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The figure below compares the results from GEOSX (marks) and the corresponding analytical solution (solid curves) for the change of total stresses (:math:`\sigma_{xx}`, :math:`\sigma_{yy}` and :math:`\sigma_{xy}`) along the fault plane. As shown, GEOSX reliably captures the mechanical deformation of the faulted reservoir and shows excellent agreement with the analytical solutions for two different scenarios. Differences in the stress perturbations between the cases with permeable and impermeable fault are also noticeable, which suggests that fault permeability plays a crucial role in governing reservoir deformation for the problems with reservoir pressurization or depletion. 
```
